Add missing documentation about the UmbracoContext (#4013)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Querying/UmbracoContext/index.md

---
versionFrom: 9.0.0
meta.Title: "Umbraco Request Context"
meta.Description: "The UmbracoContext is a helpful service provided on each request to the website"
---

# UmbracoContext helper

The UmbracoContext is the simplified way to work with the current request on your website.

> You can use the UmbracoContext to access the content & media cache. Other useful properties are the the original & cleaned url's of the current request. And last, but not least, you can also check if the current request is running in "preview" mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use UmbracoContext to access the content and media cache. Other useful properties are the original and cleaned URLs of the current request. You can also check if the current request is running in "preview" mode.
```

## How to reference UmbracoContext

> If you are using Views or Partial View Macros you can reference UmbracoHelper with the syntax: `@UmbracoContext`

Reviewer: Shouldn't `UmbracoHelper` here be `UmbracoContext` instead? 🤔 

```suggestion
If you are using Views or Partial View Macros you can reference the UmbracoContext with the syntax: `@UmbracoContext`
```

If you need an `UmbracoContext` in your own controllers, you need to inject an `IUmbracoContextAccessor`.

> Example of getting `UmbracoContext` in a controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of how to get access to the `UmbracoContext` in a controller:
```

namespace Umbraco.Docs.Samples.Web.Controllers.Api;

public class PeopleController : UmbracoApiController
{
    private readonly IUmbracoContextAccessor _umbracoContextAccessor;

    public PeopleController(IUmbracoContextAccessor umbracoContextAccessor)
    {
        _umbracoContextAccessor = umbracoContextAccessor;
    }

    [HttpGet]
    public ActionResult<IEnumerable<string>> GetAll()
    {
        if (_umbracoContextAccessor.TryGetUmbracoContext(out IUmbracoContext? context) == false)
        {
            return this.Problem("unable to get content");
        }

        if (context.Content == null)
        {
            return this.Problem("Content Cache is null");
        }

        var personContentType = context.Content.GetContentType(Person.ModelTypeAlias);
        Debug.Assert(context.Content.HasContent());
        var personNodes = (context.Content.GetAtRoot()
                .First()
                .FirstChild<People>()
                .Children<Person>() ?? Array.Empty<Person>())
            .Select(p => p.Name);
        return personContentType == null
            ? this.Problem("Person Content Type is null")
            : Ok(personNodes);
    }
}
```

> UmbracoContext is registered with a scoped lifetime (see [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection?view=aspnetcore-5.0#lifetime-and-registration-options) for more information), as a service scope is created for each request you can resolve an instance directly in a controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UmbracoContext is registered with a scoped lifetime. See the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection?view=aspnetcore-5.0#lifetime-and-registration-options) for more information. A service scope is created for each request, which means you can resolve an instance directly in a controller.
```
